# Porcupine Binding for Vue

## Porcupine wake word engine

Made in Vancouver, Canada by [Picovoice](https://picovoice.ai)

Porcupine is a highly accurate and lightweight wake word engine. It enables building always-listening voice-enabled
applications using cutting edge voice AI.

Porcupine is:

- private and offline
- [accurate](https://github.com/Picovoice/wake-word-benchmark)
- [resource efficient](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=T0tAnh8tUQg) (runs even on microcontrollers)
- data efficient (wake words can be easily generated by simply typing them, without needing thousands of hours of
  bespoke audio training data and manual effort)
- scalable to many simultaneous wake-words / always-on voice commands
- cross-platform

## Compatibility

- Chrome / Edge
- Firefox
- Safari

## Installation

### Package

Using `Yarn`:

```console
yarn add @picovoice/porcupine-vue
```

or using `npm`:

```console
npm install --save @picovoice/porcupine-vue
```

### AccessKey

Porcupine requires a valid Picovoice `AccessKey` at initialization. `AccessKey` acts as your credentials when using
Porcupine SDKs.
You can get your `AccessKey` for free. Make sure to keep your `AccessKey` secret.
Signup or Login to [Picovoice Console](https://console.picovoice.ai/) to get your `AccessKey`.

## Usage

There are two methods to initialize Porcupine:

### Public Directory

**NOTE**: Due to modern browser limitations of using a file URL, this method does __not__ work if used without hosting a
server.

This method fetches [the model file](https://github.com/Picovoice/porcupine/blob/master/lib/common/porcupine_params.pv)
from the public directory and feeds it to Porcupine.
Copy the model file into the public directory:

```console
cp ${PORCUPINE_MODEL_FILE} ${PATH_TO_PUBLIC_DIRECTORY}
```

### Base64

**NOTE**: This method works without hosting a server, but increases the size of the model file roughly by 33%.

This method uses a base64 string of the model file and feeds it to Porcupine. Use the built-in script `pvbase64` to
base64 your model file:

```console
npx pvbase64 -i ${PORCUPINE_MODEL_FILE} -o ${OUTPUT_DIRECTORY}/${MODEL_NAME}.js
```

The output will be a js file which you can import into any file of your project. For detailed information
about `pvbase64`,
run:

```console
npx pvbase64 -h
```

### Porcupine Model

Porcupine saves and caches your parameter model file (`.pv`) in IndexedDB to be used by Web Assembly.
Use a different `customWritePath` variable to hold multiple model values and set the `forceWrite` value to true to force
re-save the model file.
If the model file changes, `version` should be incremented to force the cached models to be updated.
Either `base64` or `publicPath` must be set to instantiate Porcupine. If both are set, Porcupine will use the `base64`
model.

```typescript
// Model (.pv)
const porcupineModel = {
  publicPath: ${MODEL_RELATIVE_PATH},
  // or
  base64: ${MODEL_BASE64_STRING},

  // Optional
  customWritePath: 'custom_model',
  forceWrite: true,
  version: 1,
}
```

### Initialize Porcupine

**Note**: Due to limitations on Vue, one component can only have one instance of Porcupine. To use multiple 
instance of Porcupine instead, check out [Porcupine Web binding](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@picovoice/porcupine-web).

Create the following functions:
 - `keywordDetectionCallback` function to get the streaming results from the worker
 - `isLoadedCallback` function to check if Porcupine has loaded
 - `isListeningCallback` function to check if Porcupine started/stopped listening for wake word detection
 - `errorCallback` function to catch any error occurred

```typescript
...
methods: {
  keywordDetectionCallback: function(keyword) {
    console.log(`Porcupine detected keyword: ${keyword.label}`);
  },
  isLoadedCallback: function(isLoaded) {
    console.log(isLoaded);
  },
  isListeningCallback: function(isListening) {
    console.log(isListening);
  },
  errorCallback: function(error) {
    console.error(error);
  }
};
...
```

Import `Porcupine` mixin, add it to your component and initialize Porcupine:

```html
<script lang="ts">
  import {BuiltInKeyword} from "@picovoice/porcupine-web";
  import porcupineMixin from "@picovoice/porcupine-vue";
  
  import porcupineParams from "${PATH_TO_PORCUPINE_PARAMS_BASE64}"

  export default {
    mixins: [porcupineMixin],
    mounted() {
      this.$porcupine.init(
              ${ACCESS_KEY},
              [BuiltInKeyword.Porcupine],
              this.keywordDetectionCallback,
              { base64: porcupineParams }, // porcupine model
              this.isLoadedCallback,
              this.isListeningCallback,
              this.errorCallback,
      );
    }
  }
</script>
```

### Process Audio Frames in Worker Thread

Porcupine Vue binding uses [WebVoiceProcessor](https://github.com/Picovoice/web-voice-processor) to record audio.
To start detecting wake word, run the `start` function:

```typescript
await this.$porcupine.start();
```

The `start` function initializes Porcupine and WebVoiceProcessor, then starts keyword detection.

### Stop

Run `stop` to stop keyword detection. This cleans up all resources used by Porcupine and WebVoiceProcessor.

```typescript
await this.$porcupine.stop();
```

### Release

When done with Porcupine, either call `release` or destroy the mounted component:

```typescript
await this.$porcupine.release();
```

If any arguments require changes, call `release` then `init` to initialize
Porcupine with the new settings.

## Custom Keywords

Create custom keywords using the [Picovoice Console](https://console.picovoice.ai/).
Train the Porcupine keyword model for the target platform WebAssembly (WASM).
Inside the downloaded `.zip` file, there are two files:
- `.ppn` file which is the keyword model file in binary format
- `_b64.txt` file which contains the same binary model encoded with Base64
  Similar to the model file (`.pv`), keyword files (`.ppn`) are saved in IndexedDB to be used by Web Assembly.
  Either `base64` or `publicPath` must be set to instantiate Porcupine. If both are set, Porcupine will use
  the `base64` model.
  An arbitrary `label` is required to identify the keyword once the detection occurs.

```typescript
// custom keyword (.ppn)
const keywordModel = {
  publicPath: ${KEYWORD_RELATIVE_PATH},
  // or
  base64: ${KEYWORD_BASE64_STRING},
  label: ${KEYWORD_LABEL},
  // Optional
  customWritePath: 'custom_keyword',
  forceWrite: true,
  version: 1,
}
```

Then, initialize an instance of `Porcupine`:

```typescript
this.$porcupine.init(
        ${ACCESS_KEY},
        [BuiltInKeyword.Porcupine],
        this.keywordDetectionCallback,
        keywordModel, // porcupine model
        this.isLoadedCallback,
        this.isListeningCallback,
        this.errorCallback,
);
```

## Non-English Languages

In order to detect non-English wake words you need to use the corresponding model file (`.pv`). The model files for all
supported languages are available [here](https://github.com/Picovoice/porcupine/tree/master/lib/common).

## Demo

For example usage refer to our [Web vue application](https://github.com/Picovoice/porcupine/tree/master/demo/vue).
